3/15/2023:

Today I learned after signing up for a remywiki account and after trying to figure out
Pywikibot (a bot for using MediaWiki's API) that all I need from Remywiki is a simple
API request, one that doesn't need a bot since I will not be editing the wiki, just
making queries (like hey does this kanji look familiar to you? 〆)

Anyways, here is how you make a query about pages in remywiki

https://remywiki.com/api.php?action=query&format=json&prop=&titles=[KANJI]

[KANJI] at the end is replaced with whatever kanji ah titles you wanna search

a json file is returned to you and in query > pages are the list (probably 1) of pageids
of matching pages, if it's -1 there's no matching valid title.

so let's say we searched for shime, (the kanji i asked at the end of paragraph 1).
This query returns one pageid: 31192. Dope, now what? Now, we link to a Remywiki page by
doing the following:

https://remywiki.com/?curid=31192 <--- the ID at the end here

Let the redirects or whatever do their thing. It's not like you're being paid to do this.


Update: while being super dehydrated (love being diabetic in my 20s!) I figured out
how to use Gson locally (cause I want to get the back-end functionality done before
I begin designing the front-end in Android Studio). Tried figuring out Maven, realized
it's way too complicated of a tool to use right now. Learned how to include a JAR file
in my programs.

Now Gson is running! Will begin using it tomorrow.

3/22/2023:

Sigh...

One crazy Canadian road trip, dodging high school-level third-wheels, and an impromptu
cardio session later...I still haven't figured out how to convert RemyWiki's produced JSON
file into an object. This is because the JSON has nested objects (common) but also object IDs
as object names. This is hard.

On the bright side, I think I found a solution...kinda but its for C#.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32552705/deserialize-json-object-structure-with-ids-as-keys

I did learn more about JSON serialization (object -> JSON) and JSON deserialization (JSON -> Object)

I also learned that no matter what, you must have a Java class designed for the JSON file either
way.

Thankfully, I also learned that Java classes don't always have to be super lengthy and boilerplate.
In fact, this concept is known as Plain Old Java Object, or POJO.

Options:
#1: Try this solution, but abstracted to use with Java
#2: Switch project to Android Studio and run Jackson instead of Gson lol
#3: fucc proper json processing, just search string for pageid and get that

Aight... well good night. Hopefully tomorrow will be better in terms of progress. Maybe I'll ask
some people online too.

PS: Oh I looked at the 2do list and learned that I did the first step...convert the URL into a JSON
file! Mainly by googling and copy pasting (hey i cited my sources) tho lol

Also today was a good day regardless, idk why i'm so down. Now if I could only find out why my head
has so much pressure rn....

3/24/2023:

Alright. I finally converted the json file into a remywiki page link!
Problem is that I had to switch to Jackson to use the model tree and I am using a model tree
object instead of actually converting the json file into a proper object equivalent. Oh, and I'm
on Android Studio now. Cause it's too much of a pain to run a JSON handling package on Windows.

Download the jar from maven, add it to PATH..., honestly Android Studio just runs it easier.

As for accessing RemyWiki.. I might return to this in the future when I want to get the actual
translated title of the page on remywiki / the proper pronounciation in the future.
That's a stretch goal. Or I might try to convert it as an exercise in learning JSON
deserialization/serialization.

Again, if I was being paid I would look into this further.

Or maybe I should do that tomorrow? The page just redirects my links to the page with the title
romanized in the URL. Hmmm...

Tomorrow as in Monday? lmao god

I'm happy I worked on this. It makes hanging out with my friends a lot more substantive. Speaking
of which...

3/27/2023:

Tomorrow as in Monday it was. Maybe I should work on this project on weekends actually. Idk.

Anyways it turns out i can bypass the redirects by adding a field called "&redirects" in my
initial MediaWiki API call which is sick. I still have the dynamic pageid field name so I'm
still using the Jackson model tree parsing to navigate the JSON, but now I have the
"final" pageid which means no redirects but also I can now get the romanized title of the page
which would be helpful for the user to see.

PITFALL OF THIS IMPLEMENTATION: if any titles with kanji in them have multiple pages (as in
multiple songs have the same kanji title) then a mix-up can occur. Should warn the user
that the app is made for titles mainly in kanji (maybe?) It's also unlikely that multiple
songs would have the exact title. I hope. We'll see. I love this TaQ album but holy god it
might be too dynamic for me to code along to it. Sync is playing rn and it sounds like I'm
coding something that will save the world.

I'm also light headed rn. Maybe going to people's houses rn isn't the move with my immune system.
I should eat dinner.

Andrew out.

3/28/2023:

Sigh.

I had a huge argument with my family. I'm running on 5 hrs of sleep and my mind is shot.
I'm not sure if I can handle living here that much longer. I'm about to start signing up for
retail work to do again part-time. I need to get out of here for my sanity. These people bring
out the worst in me.

In other news, I did some light research on OCR, optimal camera recognition, Japanese dictionaries.

https://developers.google.com/ml-kit/vision/text-recognition/android
https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/mlkit/vision/text/japanese/JapaneseTextRecognizerOptions

this mlkit tutorial for Android studio might have what i want. I hope.

Too tired to implement it today. Still did some refactoring to make the back-end usage of RemyWiki
finalized for usage with whatever image-to-text technology i use.

Tomorrow will be better.

3/29/2023:

Well today was better mentally but I spent like most of the day cooking tofu. It's hard to cook
at home sometimes. On the bright side I'm pretty sure that using the Google ML Kit is what I need
to use for this project. Unfortunately, I've hit a wall with the tutorial since I keep getting an
error involving getClient in the TextRecognition library. I should try looking at the example code
and see what differences there are in the build gradles. I wanna go to go shower first. and maybe
go to Round 1.

4/4/2023:

Lots of progress today! Yay!!! Implemented the tutorial completely (the issue from earlier was a
missing import statement, also I named my Java class the same name as the import statement
(TextRecognizer) lol, took me like an hour to figure that out hahahaha... ha..

anyways, I finished the tutorial and successfully got the ML kit to detect some japanese kana and
kanji! Works best with upclose, plain score backgrounds, not menu screen bolded images...

if you are Andrew and you are reading this from the future just look at your Desktop and see the ml
kit result folders, you'll see what I mean.

Anyways, my next step is to validate/handle spacing in inputs, as sometimes the kanji isn't spaced
correctly and must be addressed as such. I think. I haven't eaten in a while..

Ok what i mean is that Google ML Kit returns "真地獄超特急-HELL or HELL-" but the RemyWIki page
is 真 地獄超特急 -HELL or HELL-. I haven't tried removing the latin words though.

Aight anyways now that I realize how hungry I am Imma let u take over sir...good luck...

4/28/2023 (12 AM - 1 AM lol):

No progress today apart from catching up on what you've done already lol, it's ok its been a long day
and week, and month...This project is still interesting to me thankfully but I just need to stay
motivated on it and job apps. That's all that matters. Nothing else. I'm hungry.

5/1/2023:

Slight progress. GOOD point from my wife. I need to stop DJing. Did some refactoring and did some
light investigation into text sanitization. I might have to do text sanitization alongside
validation (i.e. checking if variations of the input give a result). Slowly getting back into it...
slowly.

5/11/2023 (midnight):

Alright back into it, though most of my work today was offline designing of the interface. Looks
like I can start implementing the front end. I have designed a baseline UI in my notebook that I
will start automating tomorrow (today technically).

I heard that Jamie Foxx might've had a stroke and could die. That's terrifying. I'm not in great
health either. I'm scared too. I set a timer for 20 minutes to get up and walk around because of
how often I sit in front of the computer.

I'm okay, mentally. I wish I had a job. I'm going to start adding to this my resume and start applying
again.

5/17/2023 (midnight to 1 am ish):

These are starting to sound like Drake song titles lol

Anyways, I made a decent amount of progress implementing the main menu skeleton. Will continue to
refine and improve as time goes on. Should definitely be working on leetcode tho, since most of the
work these next couple of days are gonna be mainly XML and googling (which is valid too!)

Working on this project makes me feel better mentally.

5/22/2023:

Skipped a movie to work on this project. I think it was worth it. I should still be applying to jobs
tho tbh. Imma do some rn. UI going though. Should clean my room. Less sore from the gym.

Is this stability in life is like?

6/7/2023:

Need to work on this daily, otherwise I slow down and check out! Got into a groove of designing a
custom linear layout XML for reminding the user to crop their images (native cropping functionality)
would take forever i'm pretty sure, also I think Google Photos allows u to crop photos before
uploading but who knows

vibing hard to christtt, goddamn I wanna watch a movie

Gotta apply to jobs while i'm at it. Things are looking up!!!!

7/13/2023:

In a retail job (part-time). I think I'll stick with it, it's lighting a fire under my a$$ to get
me to work on these projects, apply to jobs again, and practice leetcode. It's not much money.
However I appreciate it, and the coworkers seem nice. Anyways, I overcame a frustrating dependency
error but now I have arrived at a bizarre error involving data types that still functions and compiles correctly.

Will look into it further tomorrow.

9/13/2023:

I will work on this daily. Or at least....once a week. I got a lot on my plate. But this project
needs to get done. I made some progress today. Makes sense that the ghost pop tape is playing
in the background.

I will wear sweatpants at the meet n greet.

I am...Bella Hadid.


